humdrum-tools
=============

Collection of Humdrum music analysis software.


# Download #

To download this Github repository using
[git](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Git_%29software%29) in a terminal, type:

<code>git clone --recursive https://github.com/humdrum-tools/humdrum-tools</code>

The ```--recursive``` option is needed to download each of the
individual repositories inside of this meta-repository.

In a unix terminal, you can check to see if git is installed by
typing ```which git```.  If the terminal replies with a path to
git, then you can proceed with the above cloning to download the
repository.  If not, then typically you can use a package manager
to install git, such as ```apt-get install git``` or ```yum install
git``` in linux.  On Apple OS X computers, git can be installed
directly from [here](http://git-scm.com/download/mac) or by more
experienced users from a mac package manager such as
[Homebrew](http://brew.sh).  You can download GUI interfaces for
git [here](http://git-scm.com/downloads/guis).  A [Github/git
plugin](http://eclipse.github.com) is also available for the Eclipse
IDE ([watch video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ptK9-CNms98)).

This repository cannot be downloaded in a very useful format from
the ZIP link on the Github website, since the included repositories
for each composer will not be included in that ZIP file.  You must
either use [git](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Git_%29software%29)
software or separately download each of the individual composer's
ZIP files linked from the table above.  Follow [this bash
script](https://gist.github.com/josquin-research-project/8177804)
to download manually using wget (usually for linux &
[cygwin](http://www.cygwin.com)), or [this bash
script](https://gist.github.com/josquin-research-project/8177884)
for OS X.


